docs/cnc_cut_outline.rst, before:

===============
CNC Cut Outline
===============

1. Introduction to the automated cutting technology
===================================================
    
Computer numerical control (a.k.a. CNC) lets cut material directly from computer design file (dxf, stl, g-code ...). This ensures precision, reproducibility, shape-complexity and automation.

.. image:: images/3_axis_cnc.png

The 3-axis CNC can process:
  - 2.5D : xy-path at z constant
  - 3D: xyz-path in case of well adapted router_bit and path
  
Cutting technology:
  - laser cutter (Only 2D: cutting and engraving)
  - water jet (Only 2D with a 3-axis machine)
  - mechanical router_bit (2.5D and 3D depending on shape and router_bit shape)
  - electrical discharge machining


2. 2D path constraints
======================

.. image:: images/2d_path.png

Minimal curve radius constraint:
  - laser and water-jet requests no specific constraint
  - For mechanical router_bit, inner curve must have a curve radius bigger than the router_bit radius.    

.. image:: images/osculating_circle.png

So inner corner can not be cut with router_bit. They must be replaced by inner curve. Tight inner curve must be smoothed to respect the minimal curve radius constraint.

.. image:: images/possible_2d_shape_with_a_router_bit_of_radius_r.png

2.1. Coplanar fitting
---------------------

If you want a perfect fitting between two coplanar shapes, then outer corners and outer curves must be rounded to get a minimum curve radius bigger than the router_bit radius. For a perfect fitting, two coplanar shapes must be complementary.

.. image:: images/coplanar_fitting.png

2.2. Incoplanar fitting
-----------------------

.. image:: images/not_coplanar_shape.png

If two parts, made out of 2D shape cut in a plan, are not coplanar, then rounding corner doesn't help the fitting of the two parts.

For fitting not coplanar shapes, we need to enlarge inner corners.

.. image:: images/not_coplanar_fitting.png

3. Coplanar fitting details
===========================

For fitting two coplanar shapes, the inner and outer corners must be smoothed.

.. image:: images/detailed_coplanar_fitting.png

::

  (D1), (D2) : two straight lines
  A : intersection of (D1) and (D2)
  (C) : circle or radius (r) tangent to (D1) and (D2)
  E : intersection of (C) and (D1)
  F : intersection of (C) and (D2)
  O : the center of (C)
  (EAF)=a is the angle between (D1) and (D2)

  (C) is tangent to (D1), so (D1) is perpendicular to (EO)
  (C) is tangent to (D2), so (D2) is perpendicular to (FO)
  FO=EO=r, so O belongs to the bisector of (EAF)
  We have AF=AE and (FA0)=(EAO)=a/2
  AEO is right triangle in E
  tan(EAO) = OE/AE
  AE = r/tan(a/2)
  sin(EAO) = OE/AO
  AO = r/sin(a/2)

  Knowing Gx,Gy,Ax,Ay,Hx,Hy, we want to calculate: a
  (xAG) = atan((Gy-Ay)/(Gx-Ax))
  (xAH) = atan((Hy-Ay)/(Hx-Ax))
  a=(EAF)=(GAH)=(xAH)-(aAG)
  a=atan((Hy-Ay)/(Hx-Ax))-atan((Gy-Ay)/(Gx-Ax))
  
Other method with the law of cosines c²=a²+b²-2*a*b*cos(C)

::

  In the triangle GHA:
  h=AG=sqrt((Gx-Ax)²+(Gy-Ay)²)
  g=AH=sqrt((Hx-Ax)²+(Hy-Ay)²)
  a=GH=sqrt((Hx-Gx)²+(Hy-Gy)²)
  a=(GAH)=acos((h²+g²-a²)/(2*g*h))
  
  Knowing Gx,Gy,Ax,Ay,Hx,Hy,a we want to calculate: Ex,Ey,Fx,Fy
  Ex=Ax+(Gx-Ax)*AE/AG
  =Ax+(Gx-Ax)*r/(tan(a/2)*sqrt((Gx-Ax)²+(Gy-Ay)²)) 
  
.. image:: images/arc_third_point_for_coplanar_fitting.png

::

  I is the intersection of (C) and (AO)
  (D3) is the straight line perpendicular to (AO) and including I
  K is the intersection of (D3) and (D1)
  L is the intersection of (D3) and (D1)
  
  
  The triangles KAI and IAL are similar so AL=AK
  (LAI)=(IAK)=a/2
  AI=AO-IO=r/sin(a/2)-r=r*(1-sin(a/2))/sin(a/2)
  AK=AI/cos(a/2)=r*(1-sin(a/2))/(sin(a/2)*cos(a/2))=r*(1-sin(a/2))*2/sin(a)
  AJ=AK+AL=(AI+IL)+(AI+IK)=2*AI
  AI=(AK+AL)/2
  Kx=Ax+(Gx-Ax)*AK/AG
  
.. image:: images/detailed_arc_third_point_for_coplanar_fitting.png

::

  Knowing Gx,Gy,Ax,Ay,Hx,Hy,a we want to calculate: Ix, Iy
  With E,I and F, we define the arc than can be build with a router_bit of radius r.
  
4. Incoplanar fitting details
=============================

For fitting two not-coplanar shapes, the inner corners must be enlarged.

4.1.1. Case of an inner obtuse angle
------------------------------------
.. image:: images/not_coplanar_fitting_with_obtuse_angle.png

4.1.2. Border case of an inner right angle
------------------------------------------
.. image:: images/not_coplanar_fitting_with_right_angle.png

4.1.3. Case of an inner acute angle
-----------------------------------
.. image:: images/not_coplanar_fitting_with_acute_angle.png
      
4.2. Calculation
----------------
  
.. image:: images/not_coplanar_fitting_with_obtuse_angle.png

::

  Let's consider three points A, G and H.
  (D1) is the bisector of (GAH).
  O is a point of (D1) such as AO=r
  (C1) is the circle of center O and radius r
  E is the intersection of (C1) and (AG)
  F is the intersection of (C1) and (AH)
  (D2) is the straight line perpendicular to (D1) and including O
  K and L are the intersection of (D2) with (C1)
     
  
  Let's calculate AE:
  OA=OE=r
  We define I, the orthogonal projection of O on (AE)
  AI=EI because AEO is isosceles in O
  AI=AO/cos(a/2)=r*cos(a/2)
  AE=2*r*cos(a/2)
  
.. image:: images/detailed_not_coplanar_fitting_with_acute_angle.png

::

  (D3) is the straight line perpendicular to (D1) and such that the length MN is equal to 2*r with M the intersection of (D3) and (AG) and N the intersection of (D3) and (AH).
  P is the intersection of (D3) and (D1).
  AM=r/sin(a/2)    
  
  R is the middle of [AM]
  S is the middle of [AN]
  V is the intersection of (D2) and (AH)
  W is the intersection of (D) and (AG)
  AK=AR-AS+(AV+AW)/2
  AR=AS=r/(2*sin(a/2))
  AV=AW=r/cos(a/2)

Commit message:

[docs] cnc25d_api doc done

docs/cnc_cut_outline.rst, after:

===============
CNC Cut Outline
===============

1. Introduction to the automated cutting technology
===================================================
    
Computer numerical control (a.k.a. CNC) lets cut material directly from computer design file (dxf, stl, g-code ...). This ensures precision, reproducibility, shape-complexity and automation.

.. image:: images/3_axis_cnc.png

The 3-axis CNC can process:
  - 2.5D : xy-path at z constant
  - 3D: xyz-path in case of well adapted router_bit and path
  
Cutting technology:
  - laser cutter (Only 2D: cutting and engraving)
  - water jet (Only 2D with a 3-axis machine)
  - mechanical router_bit (2.5D and 3D depending on shape and router_bit shape)
  - electrical discharge machining


2. 2D path constraints
======================

.. image:: images/2d_path.png

Minimal curve radius constraint:
  - laser and water-jet requests no specific constraint
  - For mechanical router_bit, inner curve must have a curve radius bigger than the router_bit radius.    

.. image:: images/osculating_circle.png

So inner corner can not be cut with router_bit. They must be replaced by inner curve. Tight inner curve must be smoothed to respect the minimal curve radius constraint.

.. image:: images/possible_2d_shape_with_a_router_bit_of_radius_r.png

2.1. Coplanar fitting
---------------------

If you want a perfect fitting between two coplanar shapes, then outer corners and outer curves must be rounded to get a minimum curve radius bigger than the router_bit radius. For a perfect fitting, two coplanar shapes must be complementary.

.. image:: images/coplanar_fitting.png

2.2. Incoplanar fitting
-----------------------

.. image:: images/not_coplanar_shape.png

If two parts, made out of 2D shape cut in a plan, are not coplanar, then rounding corner doesn't help the fitting of the two parts.

For fitting not coplanar shapes, we need to enlarge inner corners.

.. image:: images/not_coplanar_fitting.png

3. Coplanar fitting details
===========================

For fitting two coplanar shapes, the inner and outer corners must be smoothed.

This section details the calculation related to *smoothed line-line corner*. To get the calculation related to *smoothed line-arc corner* and *smoothed arc-arc corner*, check the *SVG* files *docs/smooth_corner_line_arc.svg* and *docs/smooth_corner_arc_arc.svg*.

.. image:: images/detailed_coplanar_fitting.png

::

  (D1), (D2) : two straight lines
  A : intersection of (D1) and (D2)
  (C) : circle or radius (r) tangent to (D1) and (D2)
  E : intersection of (C) and (D1)
  F : intersection of (C) and (D2)
  O : the center of (C)
  (EAF)=a is the angle between (D1) and (D2)

  (C) is tangent to (D1), so (D1) is perpendicular to (EO)
  (C) is tangent to (D2), so (D2) is perpendicular to (FO)
  FO=EO=r, so O belongs to the bisector of (EAF)
  We have AF=AE and (FA0)=(EAO)=a/2
  AEO is right triangle in E
  tan(EAO) = OE/AE
  AE = r/tan(a/2)
  sin(EAO) = OE/AO
  AO = r/sin(a/2)

  Knowing Gx,Gy,Ax,Ay,Hx,Hy, we want to calculate: a
  (xAG) = atan((Gy-Ay)/(Gx-Ax))
  (xAH) = atan((Hy-Ay)/(Hx-Ax))
  a=(EAF)=(GAH)=(xAH)-(aAG)
  a=atan((Hy-Ay)/(Hx-Ax))-atan((Gy-Ay)/(Gx-Ax))
  
Other method with the law of cosines c²=a²+b²-2*a*b*cos(C)

::

  In the triangle GHA:
  h=AG=sqrt((Gx-Ax)²+(Gy-Ay)²)
  g=AH=sqrt((Hx-Ax)²+(Hy-Ay)²)
  a=GH=sqrt((Hx-Gx)²+(Hy-Gy)²)
  a=(GAH)=acos((h²+g²-a²)/(2*g*h))
  
  Knowing Gx,Gy,Ax,Ay,Hx,Hy,a we want to calculate: Ex,Ey,Fx,Fy
  Ex=Ax+(Gx-Ax)*AE/AG
  =Ax+(Gx-Ax)*r/(tan(a/2)*sqrt((Gx-Ax)²+(Gy-Ay)²)) 
  
.. image:: images/arc_third_point_for_coplanar_fitting.png

::

  I is the intersection of (C) and (AO)
  (D3) is the straight line perpendicular to (AO) and including I
  K is the intersection of (D3) and (D1)
  L is the intersection of (D3) and (D1)
  
  
  The triangles KAI and IAL are similar so AL=AK
  (LAI)=(IAK)=a/2
  AI=AO-IO=r/sin(a/2)-r=r*(1-sin(a/2))/sin(a/2)
  AK=AI/cos(a/2)=r*(1-sin(a/2))/(sin(a/2)*cos(a/2))=r*(1-sin(a/2))*2/sin(a)
  AJ=AK+AL=(AI+IL)+(AI+IK)=2*AI
  AI=(AK+AL)/2
  Kx=Ax+(Gx-Ax)*AK/AG
  
.. image:: images/detailed_arc_third_point_for_coplanar_fitting.png

::

  Knowing Gx,Gy,Ax,Ay,Hx,Hy,a we want to calculate: Ix, Iy
  With E,I and F, we define the arc than can be build with a router_bit of radius r.
  
4. Incoplanar fitting details
=============================

For fitting two not-coplanar shapes, the inner corners must be enlarged.

This section details the calculation related to *enlarged line-line corner*. To get the calculation related to *enlarged line-arc corner* and *enlarged arc-arc corner*, check the *SVG* file *docs/enlarge_corner_arc_arc.svg*.

4.1.1. Case of an inner obtuse angle
------------------------------------
.. image:: images/not_coplanar_fitting_with_obtuse_angle.png

4.1.2. Border case of an inner right angle
------------------------------------------
.. image:: images/not_coplanar_fitting_with_right_angle.png

4.1.3. Case of an inner acute angle
-----------------------------------
.. image:: images/not_coplanar_fitting_with_acute_angle.png
      
4.2. Calculation
----------------
  
.. image:: images/not_coplanar_fitting_with_obtuse_angle.png

::

  Let's consider three points A, G and H.
  (D1) is the bisector of (GAH).
  O is a point of (D1) such as AO=r
  (C1) is the circle of center O and radius r
  E is the intersection of (C1) and (AG)
  F is the intersection of (C1) and (AH)
  (D2) is the straight line perpendicular to (D1) and including O
  K and L are the intersection of (D2) with (C1)
     
  
  Let's calculate AE:
  OA=OE=r
  We define I, the orthogonal projection of O on (AE)
  AI=EI because AEO is isosceles in O
  AI=AO/cos(a/2)=r*cos(a/2)
  AE=2*r*cos(a/2)
  
.. image:: images/detailed_not_coplanar_fitting_with_acute_angle.png

::

  (D3) is the straight line perpendicular to (D1) and such that the length MN is equal to 2*r with M the intersection of (D3) and (AG) and N the intersection of (D3) and (AH).
  P is the intersection of (D3) and (D1).
  AM=r/sin(a/2)    
  
  R is the middle of [AM]
  S is the middle of [AN]
  V is the intersection of (D2) and (AH)
  W is the intersection of (D) and (AG)
  AK=AR-AS+(AV+AW)/2
  AR=AS=r/(2*sin(a/2))
  AV=AW=r/cos(a/2)
